--- 
title: A Night In Jozenkei
date: 2012/02/1
---

Yesterday I made way to Jozenkei back in Hokkaido. I was really sad to leave Kyoto as I'd fallen in love with that place and now I'm back in an area covered with snow. The hotel I stayed at last night, which is where I'm currently writing this post, is an extremely formal and culturally-traditional hotel. I have never felt more out of place in my life. The hotel itself is beautiful though and I did enjoy having a break from hostel-life. It was so relaxing having my own space and my own bathroom where I could just sit down and enjoying reading a book and having a warm shower.

I decided to watch TV for a little while to see what it was like...

Holy crap. I think everyone who works in the television industry in Japan must be high. None of it made sense. There is so much craziness it's hard to believe and I don't think I could even start to explain half of it. I was watching a news program from what I could tell. But one of the people on the panel was dressed in kabuki theatre attire and makeup. It seemed more like a game show but without the games and more bright colours and insanity.

Another nice part about staying in the hotel was that dinner and breakfast were included. So for one night I didn't have to wander around the city looking for something to eat. Except that the dinner was in a very formal japanese restaurant. I wasn't sure about the shoes situation in the restuarant so I ended up wearing my normal shoes and clothes. When I arrived at the restaurant I saw that all the guests were dressed in the pyjamas that were in the closet in the rooms and were wearing sandles. It was clear to see that I was the stupid foreigner. I took off my shoes and they escorted me to my seat. It was a low table that you sit cross-legged at on the floor. Luckily for me they had a gap under the table so I could sit normally. The space under the table was even heated. These Japanese think of everything.

There was a set 8 course dinner. They brought out the first meal. Crab, potato and soy inside the shell of a crap. Not a bad start. The next was a dumpling sitting in seaweed soup. A little more interesting. Then a plate full of raw fish. Very nice. The following meal was beef, onion and tomato stew covered in melted cheese served in a large leaf. I was a bit shocked at first when they brought a giant leaf over and sat it in front of me. But it ended up being one of the best dishes of the night.

For the next meal they brought a grill to the table and placed a bowl of miso on it to cook the food. With it they brought a lot of raw meat and vegetables. The raw meat on the plate was chicken so they gave me a second set of chopsticks. I didn't realise this and happily started picking up the meat and vegetables using the same chopsticks I used for the chicken. I placed all the raw food into the bowl of boiling miso and started cooking it. It was delicious and warm. The miso gave the vegetables are very salty flavour.

While I was eating that another meal came out but I wasn't entirely sure what sort of meat it was. It looked like chicken. But surely they wouldn't serve me raw chicken. Maybe it was to put in the bowl. I wasn't sure. So I asked the waitress (who seemed giddy at the fact there was a westerner there) and I tried to translate her response but I still wasn't sure if it was chicken or not. So I took and piece and tasted it. I figured one little bite of raw chicken won't kill me...

Turns out it wasn't chicken meat though. I think. It's texture seemed more like fish but I couldn't be sure. So I pushed the dish to the side.

The dessert was the best part. It was a daifugu (a ball of sweet, rice flour filled with sweets in the centre) inside a coconut soup with fruit on top. This is more my style so I scoffed that down as quickly as I could. Dinner was now finished, my sake bottle was empty and I happily went to bed early for the first time since coming to Japan.

Breakfast this morning was a little bit too traditional for my tastes. It was a buffet but I had no idea what most of the food was or how it went together. So I stayed in the fruit corner and just ate as much as I could. I can't wait to get back to Australia and have bacon and eggs again.

Today I thought I would explore Jozenkei. Except that there's not that much to explore. The towns signature icon is the kappa. Which I'm guessing is some sort of turtle. They have statues of the little guy all over town. There's also hot spring hand and feet washing areas all over town on the side of the road. I'm guessing that whereever they stumbled upon a hot spring they put one of the washing stations. They do help to warm you up very quickly in the snow. The main attraction of the city seems to be the onsens. There aren't many houses and shops. In fact I think I found the main street and there were only a couple of shops. But there are dozens of hotels everywhere and not many people walking around town.

I thought I'd go and have a look at the king kappa statue but it had snowed so much last night that the path was blocked. Both paths. So I went to try my luck at the mountain hiking trails. Both of those were snowed in as well. My last option was the Jozenkei shrine.

After that I thought I'd find some food. The number of restaurants I found in the town I could probably count on one hand. There was only one restaurant with english writing out the front so I took my chances. It turns out it was a jingiskan restaurant. Jingiskan is a hokkaido specialty. They bring meat and a jingiskan sauce to the table and you cook it yourself on a pan in the centre of the table. I ordered the biggest size you could get and cooked it up. It was amazing. I wish someone would open up a Japanese restaurant like this in Newcastle.

Now I'm on my way to Niseko. I don't know exactly why I'm going there. I was told that it is full of Australians which is not exactly what I want whilst traveling Japan but I could surely use the company, the food and the conversation. It feels like I've been a mute for the past couple of days as I have no one to have a conversation with. I'm only in Niseko for a couple of nights so I probably won't go snowboarding so hopefully there are other things to do around the town. 

The only problem is that I need to call someone when I arrive in Niseko so they can take me to the hostel. There's a nice $30 international phone call I'm going to have to make. I will probably end up looking for it myself instead. Night falls quite early here in winter so it will probably be dark when I get there at 5pm. Dark and cold.