--- 
title: Fun Facts About Japan
date: 2012/02/09
---

Today I'm heading back to Australia after spending the last 18 days trekking around Japan. I thought I'd do a post summarising a few of my experiences and writing about some of the little things about Japan that didn't make it into the other posts.

Before coming to Japan I thought that maybe I'd like to live and work over here someday. Whilst I love the country and the culture I've realised since being here that I really do love where I live in Newcastle. My friends, my family, my career and my memories all belong in Newcastle and Port Stephens. It's made me appreciate what I have in Australia a lot more. I'll definitely

So here's a list of interesting tidbits I've discovered about Japan whilst being here that probably didn't make it into previous posts:

* They all love using flip phones. Very few people have smart phones. I'm very glad I don't have to design mobile sites for people in Japan. They're a good 4 or 5 years behind (at least) from what I can tell. I'm not entirely sure why they all use the old flip phones. Perhaps smart phones are just too expensive. Maybe someone can enlighten me.
* Vending machines are on every single corner. There are probably about 10 on each block containing mostly drinks like alcohol, hot chocolate, coffee, juice and water. I never found the fabled underpants vending machine though.
* English is everywhere. Since Japan is the only country in the world that speaks Japanese I suppose it makes sense to use English for anyone who doesn't live in Japan. I thought I'd have a more difficult time navigating my way across train stations and ordering food but there is usually an English backup. 
* The English they use is extremely broken. I'm assuming that the English words and grammar they use make sense when directly translated to Japanese. A large whisky brand over here uses the slogan, "Great taste for enjoying time" (or similar). Why a company of that size didn't employ a translator to fix it I'm not sure. This type of broken English is absolutely everywhere and it's hilarious. It was probably one of best parts of Japan.
* No stores seem to open before 10am. They seem to stay open fairly late but it was a little annoying not being able to find any open stores at 9am.
* They eat horrible things for breakfast. Raw and cooked fish, miso soup, seaweed, pickles and rice. It just doesn't seem appealing to me for breakfast at all. Most days I skipped breakfast or waited until 11am and bought some ramen. The hotels had a very small western selection usually consisting of scrambled eggs, bacon and bread. Even so, the bacon was tasteless and rubbery and the eggs were just a moosh of nothingness.
* While walking around at night I never once felt threatened like you can in Australia. There we never any drunk people on the streets causing a scene or starting fights. It definitely says something about Australian culture. Japan has very relaxed alcohol laws. You can walk the streets drinking alcohol and you can buy it in vending machines. At the snow festival I bought a lot of hot spiced wine and hot cherry beer from the side of the street and was able to walk around town drinking it. In Australia we have very strict alcohol laws and a serious problem with binge, excessive and underage drinking. The simple fact that we've made it more taboo might be the reason for it to be abused so much but perhaps it's a deeper cultural difference. The Japanese are very much about respect and honour whereas Australia is... well, I'm not entirely sure. Respect and honour are not traits that are considered valuable in Australian culture I don't think and this is a shame.
* Shopkeepers treat their customers with the utmost respect. Everyone in the store will welcome you with a genuine smile and bow when you enter and farewell you and thank you when you leave. In Australia we don't seem to value work in the same way. Most people seem to hate their jobs and are just waiting for the day to be over so they can go home. They don't care about people coming into the store. All of this must stem from something fundamentally different in culture and it fascinates me. I just don't know how western and eastern cultures ended up so different in this regard.
* Their TV is crazy. It's really unbelievable. All the stereotypes you've heard about Japanese TV are absolutely correct. They seem to love shows with panels of people discussing a topic. One of the people is usually dressed up in some wacky costume and they show clips of footage whilst showing the faces of the panel members in the corner so we can see their reactions.